recipes.md, before:

#django-alt recipes

This document aims to provide a brief overview of functionality provided by
django-alt.

###0. Preparation
First let's create a simple model that will be managed as a REST resource:
```python
# models.py
class Todo(models.Model):
    text = models.TextField()
    slug = models.SlugField()
    author = models.ForeignKey(Account)
    date_created = models.DateTimeField(auto_now_add=True)
    
    @property
    def is_new(self):
        return (timezone.now() - self.date_created) < timedelta(hours=12)
```
Then let's create a `Validator`, that will:
 - constrain the values that the model can be constructed from (individually and mutually),
 - prepare (clean) these values before construction,
 - allow access to the model's lifecycle,
```python
# validators.py
class TodoValidator(Validator):
    def clean(self, attrs):
        # generate a slug for the TODO
        attrs['slug'] = slugify(attrs['text'])
        
    def field_text(self, text):
        # we only allow TODOs that are more then 5 characters long
        invalid_if(len(text) <= 5, 'text', 'The text is to short!')
    
    def base(self, attrs):
        # perform validation that concerns multiple fields
        if len(attrs['text']) > 200 and not attrs['author'].is_active:
            invalid(('author', 'text'), 'Confirm account to post long TODOs!')
    
    def did_create(self, instance, validated_attrs):
        # send emails to people who care about new TODOs
        inform_subscribers(instance)
        
```
And a simple serializer that will operate on all model fields:
```python
# serializers.py
class TodoSerializer(ValidatedModelSerializer):
    class Meta:
        model = Todo
        fields = '__all__'
        validator_class = TodoValidator
```


###1. Basic list and detail endpoints
```python
# endpoints.py
class TodoListEndpoint(Endpoint):
    """
    Provides TODO management entry points at collection level
    """
    serializer = TodoSerializer
    config = {
        'get': {
            # fetch all objects on GET
            'queryset': lambda todo, **url: todo.objects.all()
        },
        # no initial DB fetching needed for creating new TODOs 
        'post': None
    }
    
    
class TodoDetailEndpoint(Endpoint):
    """
    Provides TODO management entry points at instance level
    """
    serializer = TodoSerializer
    config = {
        'get, patch, delete': {
            # all HTTP methods operate on single objects enumerated by their ID
            'queryset': lambda todo, **url: todo.objects.get(id=url['pk'])
        }
    }
    
    
# urls.py
urlpatterns = [
    url(r'^/$', TodoListEndpoint.as_view()),
    url(r'^/(?P<pk>[0-9]+)/$', TodoDetailEndpoint.as_view()),
]
```

Commit message:

- Improved documentation (`readme.md`, `recipes.md`), added `indepth.md`.  - Introduced wildcard validators: ability to defined arbitrary functions  to validate individual fields or all attributes collectively. More information  on this in `indepth.md`.  - Introduced automatic query parameter casting (e.g. where possible `"1"` -> `1`,  `"true"` -> `True`, etc.). This feature can be turned off by adding  `no_url_param_casting` in the config dict on the endpoint.  - Broadened `pre_permission` and `post_permission` definition to include  absolute values instead of callables:     - `True`  -> permission always granted,     - `False` -> permission never granted,     - `None`  -> no permission needed (`True` <=> `None`, the distinction is only semantic).  - Added `ValidatedModelListSerializer`.  - Added `coal_first` shortcut function. It finds the first argument  that is not `None` and doesn't raise a `KeyError`.  - Added `compose_and` shortcut. It composes an iterable of callables  with identical signatures and asserts universal quantification for their results.  - Added `pre_logged_in` permission shortcut.

recipes.md, after:

#django-alt recipes

This document aims to provide a brief overview of functionality provided by
django-alt.

###0. Preparation
First let's create a simple model that will be managed as a REST resource:
```python
# models.py
class Todo(models.Model):
    text = models.TextField()
    slug = models.SlugField()
    author = models.ForeignKey(Account)
    date_created = models.DateTimeField(auto_now_add=True)
    
    @property
    def is_new(self):
        return (timezone.now() - self.date_created) < timedelta(hours=12)
```
Then let's create a `Validator`, that will:
 - constrain the values that the model can be constructed from (individually and mutually),
 - prepare (clean) these values before construction,
 - allow access to the model's lifecycle,
```python
# validators.py
class TodoValidator(Validator):
    def clean(self, attrs):
        # generate a slug for the TODO
        attrs['slug'] = slugify(attrs['text'])
        
    def field_text(self, text):
        # we only allow TODOs that are more then 5 characters long
        invalid_if(len(text) <= 5, 'text', 'The text is to short!')
    
    def base(self, attrs):
        # perform validation that concerns multiple fields
        if len(attrs['text']) > 200 and not attrs['author'].is_active:
            invalid(('author', 'text'), 'Confirm account to post long TODOs!')
    
    def did_create(self, instance, validated_attrs):
        # send emails to people who care about new TODOs
        inform_subscribers(instance)
        
```
And a simple serializer that will operate on all model fields:
```python
# serializers.py
class TodoSerializer(ValidatedModelSerializer):
    class Meta:
        model = Todo
        fields = '__all__'
        validator_class = TodoValidator
```
As we will see later, when used with an `Endpoint` this serializer will:
 - instantiate the given `Validator` subclass;
 - call it's methods appropriately.


###1. Example: basic list and detail endpoints
`Endpoint`s are a substitutes for Django views (or more specifically Django
Rest Framework `APIView`s). To create them:
 - create a class that subclasses `Endpoint`;
 - add a `config` dictionary as a class attribute;
 - specify HTTP methods that will work with your endpoint in `config`;
 - add a serializer attribute that will be wired up to the pipeline.

Here is an example:
```python
# endpoints.py
class TodoListEndpoint(Endpoint):
    """
    Provides TODO management entry points at collection level
    """
    serializer = TodoSerializer
    config = {
        'get': {
            # fetch all objects on GET
            'queryset': lambda todo, **url: todo.objects.all()
        },
        # no initial DB fetching needed for creating new TODOs 
        'post': None
    }
    
    
class TodoDetailEndpoint(Endpoint):
    """
    Provides TODO management entry points at instance level
    """
    serializer = TodoSerializer
    config = {
        'get, patch, delete': {
            # all HTTP methods operate on single objects enumerated by their ID
            'queryset': lambda todo, **url: todo.objects.get(id=url['pk'])
        }
    }
    
    
# urls.py
urlpatterns = [
    url(r'^/$', TodoListEndpoint.as_view()),
    url(r'^/(?P<pk>[0-9]+)/$', TodoDetailEndpoint.as_view()),
]
```

That's it! You now have a working API.
